\section{Problem Description}

Simplesite changed their subscription service to a so called freemium model
during 2015. This model means that everyone can have a website for free, and it
will never be closed. This way of doing subscriptions means that more people
sign up, and become potential customers, however a trend is that most customers
that sign up either don't become paying customers, or simple make a site and
stop using it after a few days.

Simplesite wishes to map the life-cycle of customers in an attempt to find out
how good users (users that are \textit{retained}, ie. have logins 3-4 weeks
after they are created) use their site, as well as look at the life-cycles of
the many free or abandoned customers. They hope to discover what, if any, the
significant differences is in the different lifecycles. The goal is to attempt
to guide new customers down the paths that are known to be ``good'' and
hopefully detect if customers are stuck or have forgotten about their website.


%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsection{Requirements}

Simplesite have already created some code in
R\footnote{\url{https://www.r-project.org/}} so any continued work should also
be done in the R language. I have also been added to a Github repository with
already populated with analytics code and a preferred structure and coding style
that should be adhered to.

Two datasets are also available containing different information gathered from
the live system. These two datasets should form the basis for all the
dataanalysis performed. An additional dataset is being constructed during the
project, but due to the time it takes to populate it with enough observations to
be meaningful it might not be finished before the project is over.


%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsection{Success Criteria}

The project have a number of success criteria that should all be fulfilled to
some degree.

\begin{enumerate*}
  \item A model for classifying customers are created.
  \item New knowledge about customers lifecycles are acquired from the model.
        More preferably, do \textit{retained} customers have something in common.
  \item A prototype R script that can automatically build/create the model from
  		  new customer data should be created.
  \item A method for using the model should be designed or reasoned about.
\end{enumerate*}
